New introduction for Mapped Types article (#2346)
microsoft/TypeScript-Website: packages/documentation/copy/en/handbook-v2/Type Manipulation/Mapped Types.md

oneline: "Generating types by re-using an existing type."
---

> When you don't want to repeat yourself, sometimes a type needs to be based on another type: that is, a new type with the same JavaScript object properties as another type, but modified in some way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you don't want to repeat yourself, sometimes a type needs to be based on another type.
```

I don't think this extra bit adds; in fact, you can make a new object that has entirely different properties which do depend on another type and so it's not "the same object properties" in that way. I think the rest of the section is pretty self explanatory.

> For example, supposing you have a mutable `Person` type and also want a separate type for an immutable Person, and another for a partially-built Person, and another separate type to represent per-property change-flags then you would need to repeat the property list every time, with modifications:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, suppose you have a `Person` type and also want separate types for an immutable Person and a partially-built Person, along with a type to represent per-property change-flags. You would need to repeat the property list every time:
```

```ts twoslash
type Person = {
    age: number;
    name: string;
    alive: boolean
};

/** Immutable person */
type ReadOnlyPerson = {
    readonly age: number;
    readonly name: string;
    readonly alive: boolean
};

/** Incomplete Person: all properties are optional (i.e. undefined) */
type IncompletePerson = {
    age?: number;
    name?: string;
    alive?: boolean
};

/** Person property is-changed flags (e.g. for generating minimal SQL UPDATE statements)  */
type PersonChangeFlags = {
    age: boolean;
    name: boolean;
    alive: boolean
};
```

> However if we define `ReadOnlyPerson`, `IncompletePerson`, and `PersonChangeFlags` as types _mapped to_ `type Person` then the amount of code we need to write is drastically reduced, as well as eliminating the maintenance burden of keeping all the types' properties lists in-sync. Doing this, the above types become just this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if we define `ReadOnlyPerson`, `IncompletePerson`, and `PersonChangeFlags` as types _mapped to_ `type Person` then the amount of code we need to write is drastically reduced, eliminating the maintenance burden of keeping all the types' properties lists in sync. Doing this, the above types become just this:
```

I'm also considering whether or not it's more correct to say "mapped from".

```ts twoslash
type Person = { age: number; name: string; alive: boolean };
/// ---cut---
// Use `+readonly` to add the `readonly` modifier to all properties in Person:
type ReadOnlyPerson = { +readonly [PersonPropertyName in keyof Person]: Person[PersonPropertyName] };
//   ^?

// Use  `+?` to add `?` to all properties in Person, making them optional (i.e. maybe-undefined):
type IncompletePerson  = { [PersonPropertyName in keyof Person]+?: Person[PersonPropertyName] };
//   ^?

// Use `: boolean` to change the type of every property in Person to boolean:
type PersonChangeFlags = { [PersonPropertyName in keyof Person]: boolean };
//   ^?
```

> Taking this a step further: supposing in addition to `type Person` we also have `type Order`, `type Product`, `type OrderItem`, and we want immutable, partial, and flags copies of all of those types, then we don't need to manually define mapped-types for those either: we can make our mapped-types generic:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Taking this a step further: suppose in addition to `type Person`, we also have `type Order`, `type Product`, `type OrderItem`, and we want immutable, partial, and flags copies of all of those types. We don't need to manually define mapped-types for those either -- we can make our mapped-types generic:
```
